[TECOPS-10022] add getting started on azure docs (#733)
snowplow/documentation: docs/getting-started-on-snowplow-bdp-enterprise/setup-guide-azure/index.md

---
title: "Setup Snowplow BDP on Azure"

> date: "2024-01-11"

Reviewer: this is not needed, docusaurus figures out the date automatically via git

sidebar_position: 30
---

## Request your pipeline through Snowplow BDP Console

Login to Snowplow BDP Console where you'll be able to follow a step-by-step guide to getting started (including the steps below).

## Setting up your Azure account

To get your cloud environment ready for your Snowplow pipeline to be installed:

### Create a new account

> Please create a new Azure account and tenant segregated from anything else you have running in Azure. For the latest documentation on setting up a new account and tenant please refer to the Azure documentation [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please create a new Azure account and tenant segregated from anything else you have running in Azure. For the latest documentation on setting up a new account and tenant please refer to the [Azure documentation](https://azure.microsoft.com/).
```

Reviewer: Is there any specific page we could link to?

Author: I've been unable to find any generic "Create your azure account" type documentation from them. Most of it is bare bones and sends you right to signing up with Azure. I did find this https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/purchase-options/pay-as-you-go/ which has a bit more detail. Let me know if you'd like to update to using this or leave.

### Enable billing for the account

> Please enable billing in the tenant by creating a subscription as failing to do so will prevent the pipeline from being installed. For details on enabling billing for your tenant, please refer to the Azure documentation for [subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/create-subscription).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please enable billing in the tenant by creating a subscription. Otherwise, the pipeline will fail to deploy. For details on enabling billing for your tenant, please refer to the Azure documentation for [subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/create-subscription).
```

### Set up Access and Required Permissions

> Snowplow deploys into your tenant using a verified [application service principle](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/app-objects-and-service-principals?tabs=browser#service-principal-object) (Enterprise application). We require a custom role to be assigned to the application service principle to allow creation of custom pipeline roles needed for deploying and managing different components of your infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snowplow deploys into your tenant using a verified [application service principal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/app-objects-and-service-principals?tabs=browser#service-principal-object) (Enterprise application). We require a custom role to be assigned to the application service principal. This will allow us to create custom pipeline roles needed for deploying and managing different components of your infrastructure.
```

Author: Oh! Good catch here!

#### Consent to Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment application

> Snowplow requests customers grant our verified application service principle access into your Azure tenant. Once granted you should see the application service principle under Microsoft Entra ID ~> Enterprise Applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to grant our verified application service principal the access into your Azure tenant. Once that’s done, you should see the application service principal under _Microsoft Entra ID_ → _Enterprise Applications_.
```

1. Grab your Azure tenant ID by navigating to Microsoft Entra ID

> 2. Complete the conset URL where `<TenantID>` == your tenant ID. The `client_id` set is for "Snoplow BDP Enterprise Deployment" application service principle

Reviewer 2: conset => consent ?
Snoplow => Snowplow

> 2. Complete the consent URL where `<TenantID>` == your tenant ID. The `client_id` set is for "Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment" application service principle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Complete the consent URL where `<TenantID>` is your tenant ID. The `client_id` set is for "Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment" application service principal
```

    ```
    https://login.microsoftonline.com/<TenantID>/oauth2/authorize?client_id=0581feb4-b614-42c7-b8e7-b4e7fba9153a&response_type=code
    ```
3. Have your Azure tenant admin consent to setting up an Enterprise application trust within your tenant
4. Verify the trust has been established by viewing "Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment" application in the Enterprise Applications section of Entra ID

> #### Create and Assign Role to Application Service Principle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create and Assign Role to Application Service Principal
```

> Create a custom role and assign it to allow the Snowplow application service principle the ability to create roles to deploy and manage infrastructure resources that make up your pipeline.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explicitly say what to assign the custom role to ?

> Create a custom role and assign it the "Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment" application service principle under your subscription. This allows the permission of creating distinct roles for deploying and managing infrastructure resources that make up your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a custom role and assign it the "Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment" application service principal under your subscription. This grants the permission to create distinct roles for deploying and managing infrastructure resources that make up your pipeline.
```

1. Navigate to your newly created subscription
2. Click into "Access Control (IAM)"

> 3. +Add custom role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add custom role
```

Reviewer: Or...
```suggestion
3. Click “Add custom role”
```

> 4. Create the following role which allows Snowplow to create various roles that are specific to components that make up your pipeline. The `customer_subscription_id` should be the subscription ID that Snowplow will deploy into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create the following role, which allows Snowplow to create various roles that are specific to components that make up your pipeline. The `customer_subscription_id` should be the subscription ID that Snowplow will deploy into
```

    ```json
    {
        "properties": {
            "roleName": "Snowplow-Deployment-Role-Creator-Role",
            "description": "Custom policy to allow creation of individual Azure stack related roles",
            "assignableScopes": [
                "/subscriptions/<customer_subscription_id>"
            ],
            "permissions": [
                {
                    "actions": [
                        "Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write",
                        "Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/read",
                        "Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/delete",
                        "Microsoft.Authorization/roleDefinitions/write",
                        "Microsoft.Authorization/roleDefinitions/read",
                        "Microsoft.Authorization/roleDefinitions/delete",
                        "Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/read"
                    ],
                    "notActions": [],
                    "dataActions": [],
                    "notDataActions": []
                }
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

> 5. Within "Access Control (IAM)" click +Add role assignment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Within “Access Control (IAM)”, click “Add role assignment”
```

> 6. Assign the `Snowplow-Deployment-Role-Creator-Role` to service principle "Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Assign the `Snowplow-Deployment-Role-Creator-Role` to service principal “Snowplow BDP Enterprise Deployment”
```
